Reedelk transformer 3rd-party plugin (#2187)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/reedelk/reedelk-transformer/index.md

---
name: Reedelk Transformer

publisher: Reedelk

categories:
  - transformations

type:
  plugin        

desc: Kong plugin to transform Reedelk requests and responses

description: |

>   The Reedelk  transformer plugin allows transforming the upstream request body or
>   downstream response body by invoking a Reedelk REST flow before hitting the
>   upstream server, or before sending the downstream response back to the client.
>   The plugin allows applying upstream and downstream transformations together as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Reedelk Transformer plugin transforms the upstream request body or
  downstream response body by invoking a Reedelk REST flow before hitting the
  upstream server, or before sending the downstream response back to the client.
  The plugin can apply both upstream and downstream transformations in the same flow.
```
Initial caps for the plugin name, since it's a proper name. 
Last sentence: not entirely sure that the phrasing is correct - maybe "to the same data set", or something along those lines? 

I'd avoid using the phrasing of "allows doing something" - there's usually a more succinct way of saying the same thing.

Author: This is much improved, thanks!

support_url: https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer/issues
  # (Optional) A specific URL of your own for this extension.
  # Defaults to the url setting in your publisher profile.

source_url: https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer

license_type: Apache-2.0
  # (Optional) For open source, use the abbreviations in parentheses at:
  # https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical

license_url: https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

kong_version_compatibility:
  community_edition:
    compatible:
      - 2.1.x

>       - 1.5.x

Reviewer: The last two releases of community were 2.1.x and 2.0.x. I assume either one of these entries is incorrect and this plugin is supported in either 2.1 and 2.0, or 2.0 and 1.5; or, 2.0.x is simply missing.

Author: > The last two releases of community were 2.1.x and 2.0.x. I assume either one of these entries is incorrect and this plugin is supported in either 2.1 and 2.0, or 2.0 and 1.5; or, 2.0.x is simply missing.

Yes, at first I had this as Kong Enterprise compatible so the numbers are wrong. Will fix and add KE back after they verify.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3756245/88982809-dfca7d80-d28e-11ea-9e5b-ce5756d62086.png)

@reedelk please confirm compatible community versions, and enterprise editions versions when you get your trial version tested.

# enterprise_edition:
  #  compatible:
  #    - 2.1.x
  #    - 1.5.x

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing here is the compatibility matrix for the Community Edition and Enterprise Edition:

#### Community Edition
* 2.1.x
* 2.0.x
* 1.5.x

Deployment Strategy:
* "Classic": Full Support
* "DB-less": Full Support
* "Hybrid mode": Full Support

#### Enterprise Edition

* 1.5.x

Deployment Strategy:
* "Classic": Full Support
* "DB-less": Full Support
* "Hybrid mode": Full Support

Thank you

Author: @reedelk Thank you for your responses, Lorenzo. Please note that the deployment modes are a bit different for Kong Enterprise:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3756245/89038920-d1b84380-d306-11ea-898c-b08a72e50571.png)

Can you let us know about your support for K4K8s?

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing thanks for pointing that out. I confirm that the plugin is compatible with the Kong Ingress Controller (K4K8s) as well.

  # enterprise_edition:
  #  compatible:
  #    - 2.1.x
  #    - 1.5.x

params:
  name: reedelk-transformer
  api_id: false
  service_id: true
  consumer_id: false
  route_id: true
  protocols: ["http", "https"]
  dbless_compatible: yes
  dbless_explanation:

  config:
    - name: upstream_transformer_url
      required: no
      default:
      value_in_examples: http://myhost/upstream/transform
      description:

>         The URL of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the Upstream

Reviewer: We generally capitalize "Upstream" in the docs because it refers to an Upstream object in Kong. I don't think this is what's happening here?

Author: @reedelk can you please advise on this comment?

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing yes please "Upstream" should be lowercased -> "upstream".

Author: Made lowercase.

        request transformation.

    - name: downstream_transformer_url
      required: no
      default:
      value_in_examples: http://myhost/downstream/transform
      description:

>         The URL of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the Downstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The URL of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the downstream
```
There is no downstream Kong object.

Author: There is no Downstream plugin glossary term but there is something downstream in this flow. 
@reedelk can you please advise on this comment? I'm happy to make it all lowercase if that is appropriate.

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing yes please "Downstream" should be lowercased -> "downstream".

Author: Made lowercase.

        request transformation.

  extra:
    The `upstream_transformer_url` and `downstream_transformer_url` are the URLs

>     of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the Upstream/Downstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the upstream/downstream
```

Author: Will address when the above comments answered.

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing for consistency "upstream/downstream" should be both lowercased.

Author: made lowercase.

    request/response transformations; e.g., `http://localhost:8888/apiabledev/transform`.
###############################################################################
# END YAML DATA

###############################################################################
# BEGIN MARKDOWN CONTENT
---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

To use the Reedelk plugin for Kong, you must first install the Reedelk IntelliJ
IDEA flow designer plugin using either of the following options:

- **IntelliJ Marketplace**: From **IntelliJ Preferences > Plugin > Marketplace**,
  search for `Reedelk`, install the plugin, and restart IntelliJ.

> - **Manual install**: From **IntelliJ Preferences > Plugin > Settings icon >
>   Install Plugin From Disk**, and restart IntelliJ.

Reviewer: The phrasing doesn't quite work with "From".
```suggestion
- **Manual install**: Go to **IntelliJ Preferences > Plugin > Settings icon >
  Install Plugin From Disk**, and restart IntelliJ.
```

> ### Install Kong Plugin Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install the Reedelk Transformer plugin
```

1. Clone the `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
      cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer
   ```

2. Install the module `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash
   luarocks install kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer-0.1.0-1.all.rock
   ```

3. Add the custom plugin to `kong.conf`:

   ```
   plugins = ...,reedelk-transformer
   ```

> 4. [Restart](/2.1.x/cli/#kong-restart) Kong.

Reviewer: You could also add a codeblock here with:

```
kong restart
```
If they need to know the options for `kong restart`, they'll pull up the manpage. I'd rather not link people off to another doc if the instruction is simple to add here.

Author: Added the code block but kept the link to the doc because it is convenient for the reader and also has a lot of good info.

> ### Building and Packaging the Kong Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build and package the plugin
```

1. The [LuaRocks](http://luarocks.org) package manager must be

>    [installed](https://github.com/luarocks/luarocks/wiki/Download).

Reviewer: This is more of a prereq than a step.

Author: I know, I thought about that. This is how Reedelk has it on their github doc page.  I don't want to have a Prereq subtitle though to be consistent with the rest of the Prereq headings since it is only one thing and the head levels are already getting deeper.

> 2. Build the plugin locally (based on the `.rockspec` in the current directory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Build the plugin locally (based on the `.rockspec` in the current directory):
```
Should there be a step here to cd into the plugin directory?

Author: @reedelk can you please respond to this question?

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing the assumption here was that the user was already in the plugin's directory. If you believe it is easier for the users we could add an extra step before similar to the one in the "Install Kong Plugin Steps" section:

2. Clone the `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
      cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer
   ``` 

3. Build the plugin locally (based on the `.rockspec` in the current directory).
....... etc

Author: @reedelk that was my assumption as well, but it doesn't hurt to add it here. Thank you both. Done in commit 248cafd.

   ```bash
   $ luarocks make
   ```

> 3. Package the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Package the plugin:
```

   ```bash
   $ luarocks pack kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer 0.1.0-1
   ```

> ### Hello World Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hello World example
```

Author: stet. I think all initial caps title is consistent and looks better.

> This example uses a pre-packaged `kong-reedelk` docker image with Kong and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses a prepackaged `kong-reedelk` Docker image with Kong and
```

Author: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/pre-packaged but US uses hyphen.

> `reedelk-transformer` plugin already installed. You can find the `kong-reedelk`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `reedelk-transformer` plugin already installed. You can find the `kong-reedelk`
```

Author: Committed locally

> docker images on [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker images on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin).
```

> The `kong-reedelk` image is pre-configured to use the following `kong.yml` file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kong-reedelk` image is preconfigured to use the following `kong.yml` file,
```

which defines an upstream service mapped on Route `http://localhost:8000/transform`
and invokes a downstream transformer with the `reedelk-transformer` plugin. The
configured downstream transformer integration flow URL is:

```
http://host.docker.internal:8282/api/message
```

#### Prerequisites

> - [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) must be [installed](https://www.docker.com/get-started).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker must be [installed](https://www.docker.com/get-started).
```
You don't need two links to Docker here. 
Same thing applies to the following prereqs.

Author: This is how Reedelk has it on their github doc page. I think it's fine to have both.

- [IntelliJ IDEA IDE](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) must be
  [installed](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download).
- [Reedelk IntelliJ Flow Designer Plugin](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/intellijplugin)
  must be [installed](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/intellijplugin) on
  your IntelliJ distribution.

#### Run the example

In the following steps, you run the `kong-reedelk` docker image, and then create a
new Reedelk project that contains the integration flow invoked by the
downstream transformer.

1. Run the `kong-reedelk` Docker image:

   ```
   docker run -d --name kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin \
            -p 8000:8000 \
            -p 8443:8443 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8001:8001 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8444:8444 \

>             reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin:1.0.0

Reviewer 2: @tlblessing Hi Terry, I would like to change this line so that the version of the Docker image from Dockerhub is not hardcoded anymore but it always takes the latest one. Could you please replace with the suggestion below? Thank you
```suggestion
            reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin:latest
```

Author: Done in commit b6e39ef

   ```

2. Make sure that Kong is up and running correctly with the `reedelk-transformer`
   plugin installed:

   ```
   curl http://localhost:8001/plugins
   ```

3. Open IntelliJ and create a new Reedelk project. The newly created project
   contains a `POST` Hello World flow to use as integration
   flow invoked by the downstream transformer.

4. Start the new Reedelk project by clicking **Play** next to the
   **Reedelk Runtime** run configuration in IntelliJ.

   ![Reedelk Runtime](/assets/images/docs/plugins/reedelk-runtime-start.png)

5. Call the Kong Route with the following URL:

   ```
   http://localhost:8000/transform
   ```

   The result should be:

   `Hello World John`

For more information about this example, including testing the IntelliJ Flow
Designer Plugin workflow with [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/), see the Reedelk
[Getting Started](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/getting-started)
documentation and the
[Reedelk plugin documentation](https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer#kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin-hello-world)

> on github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on GitHub.
```

      description:
        The URL of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the downstream
        request transformation.

  extra:
    The `upstream_transformer_url` and `downstream_transformer_url` are the URLs
    of the Reedelk REST flow endpoint to invoke for the upstream/downstream
    request/response transformations; e.g., `http://localhost:8888/apiabledev/transform`.
###############################################################################
# END YAML DATA

###############################################################################
# BEGIN MARKDOWN CONTENT
---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

To use the Reedelk plugin for Kong, you must first install the Reedelk IntelliJ
IDEA flow designer plugin using either of the following options:

- **IntelliJ Marketplace**: Go to **IntelliJ Preferences > Plugin > Marketplace**,
  search for `Reedelk`, install the plugin, and restart IntelliJ.

- **Manual install**: From **IntelliJ Preferences > Plugin > Settings icon >
  Install Plugin From Disk**, and restart IntelliJ.

### Install the Reedelk Transformer plugin

1. Clone the `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash

>       git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
>       cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
    $ cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer
```

   ```

2. Install the module `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash

>    luarocks install kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer-0.1.0-1.all.rock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ luarocks install kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer-0.1.0-1.all.rock
```

   ```

3. Add the custom plugin to `kong.conf`:

   ```
   plugins = ...,reedelk-transformer
   ```

4. [Restart](/2.1.x/cli/#kong-restart) Kong.

   ```

>    kong restart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ kong restart
```

   ```

### Build and package the plugin

1. [Install](https://github.com/luarocks/luarocks/wiki/Download) the
   [LuaRocks](http://luarocks.org) package manager.

2. Clone the `kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer`:

   ```bash

>       git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
>       cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ git clone https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer.git
    $ cd kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer
```

Docker images on
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin).

The `kong-reedelk` image is preconfigured to use the following `kong.yml` file,
which defines an upstream service mapped on Route `http://localhost:8000/transform`
and invokes a downstream transformer with the `reedelk-transformer` plugin. The
configured downstream transformer integration flow URL is:

```
http://host.docker.internal:8282/api/message
```

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) must be [installed](https://www.docker.com/get-started).
- [IntelliJ IDEA IDE](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) must be
  [installed](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download).
- [Reedelk IntelliJ Flow Designer Plugin](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/intellijplugin)
  must be [installed](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/intellijplugin) on
  your IntelliJ distribution.

#### Run the example

In the following steps, you run the `kong-reedelk` docker image, and then create a
new Reedelk project that contains the integration flow invoked by the
downstream transformer.

1. Run the `kong-reedelk` Docker image:

   ```

>    docker run -d --name kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ docker run -d --name kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin \
```

            -p 8000:8000 \
            -p 8443:8443 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8001:8001 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8444:8444 \
            reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin:latest
   ```

2. Make sure that Kong is up and running correctly with the `reedelk-transformer`
   plugin installed:

   ```

>    curl http://localhost:8001/plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ curl http://localhost:8001/plugins
```

   ```

3. Open IntelliJ and create a new Reedelk project. The newly created project
   contains a `POST` Hello World flow to use as integration
   flow invoked by the downstream transformer.

4. Start the new Reedelk project by clicking **Play** next to the
   **Reedelk Runtime** run configuration in IntelliJ.

   ![Reedelk Runtime](/assets/images/docs/plugins/reedelk-runtime-start.png)

5. Call the Kong Route with the following URL:

   ```

>    http://localhost:8000/transform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ http://localhost:8000/transform
```

#### Run the example

In the following steps, you run the `kong-reedelk` docker image, and then create a
new Reedelk project that contains the integration flow invoked by the
downstream transformer.

1. Run the `kong-reedelk` Docker image:

   ```
   docker run -d --name kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin \
            -p 8000:8000 \
            -p 8443:8443 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8001:8001 \
            -p 127.0.0.1:8444:8444 \
            reedelk/kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin:latest
   ```

2. Make sure that Kong is up and running correctly with the `reedelk-transformer`
   plugin installed:

   ```
   curl http://localhost:8001/plugins
   ```

3. Open IntelliJ and create a new Reedelk project. The newly created project
   contains a `POST` Hello World flow to use as integration
   flow invoked by the downstream transformer.

4. Start the new Reedelk project by clicking **Play** next to the
   **Reedelk Runtime** run configuration in IntelliJ.

   ![Reedelk Runtime](/assets/images/docs/plugins/reedelk-runtime-start.png)

5. Call the Kong Route with the following URL:

   ```
   http://localhost:8000/transform
   ```

   The result should be:

   `Hello World John`

> For more information about this example, including testing the IntelliJ Flow
> Designer Plugin workflow with [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/), see the Reedelk
> [Getting Started](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/getting-started)
> documentation and the
> [Reedelk plugin documentation](https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer#kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin-hello-world)
> on GitHub. You can also watch this
> [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5Aw2XpwKos&amp;feature=youtu.be) video.

Reviewer: Might be better to present these links as list, ie:

```suggestion
For more information about this example, including testing the IntelliJ Flow
Designer Plugin workflow with [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/), see: 
* Reedelk [Getting Started](https://www.reedelk.com/documentation/getting-started)
documentation.
* [Reedelk plugin documentation](https://github.com/reedelk/kong-plugin-reedelk-transformer#kong-reedelk-transformer-plugin-hello-world) 
on GitHub. 
* [Kong Reedelk Transformer Plugin Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5Aw2XpwKos&amp;feature=youtu.be) 
video on Youtube.
```
